# NETCONF/YANG on Nexus: Part 3 - Using OpenConfig YANG Models on Nexus Switches

In the first two parts of working with NETCONF/YANG on Nexus switches, we focused on using the Cisco specific NXOS YANG model. We started with learning about it in Part 1, making basic changes and then how to model BGP, adhering to the model in Part 2.

Now in Part 3, we will learn about the OpenConfig Working Group and how to use OpenConfig models on Nexus switches. 

## Prerequisites
To complete this lab you need:

* A development environment with typical tools and applications.  If you are at a DevNet Event using a provided workstation, you are ready to go.  If you are working from your own workstation, please review the ***"How to setup your own computer"*** link at the top of this page.  
* Lab infrastructure to target API calls and code.  These labs and code examples are written to leverage the [DevNet Open NX-OS Always On Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/dae38dd8-e8ee-4d7c-a21c-6036bed7a804?diagramType=Topology).  This lab is available for anyone to use, with only access to the Internet as a requirement. To use a different device, ensure the device is running Open NX-OS 9.2.1 or higher.

You should also have an understanding of these foundational topics:

* Complete the [Introduction to YANG Data Modeling](https://developer.cisco.com/learning/modules/intro-device-level-interfaces/) Devnet learning lab
* Complete the [Introduction to the NETCONF Protocol](https://developer.cisco.com/learning/modules/intro-device-level-interfaces/) Devnet learning lab
* Ability to read and understand Python code samples and scripts. You can explore the [Programming Fundamentals](https://developer.cisco.com/learning/modules/fundamentals) labs available on DevNet.  
* Ability to leverage Postman to make REST API requests.  This includes the use of Collections and Environments.  Check out the [REST API Fundamentals](https://developer.cisco.com/learning/modules/rest-api-fundamentals) labs available on DevNet.

*Some of the examples used in these labs utilize the BGP routing protocol. Some familiarity with it is helpful.*

## Preparing the Network Device
In this lab we'll be working with the BGP routing protocol configuration.  The DevNet Always On Sandbox should already have the needed configuration in place, but to be sure run this baseline script that uses NETCONF to configure the basic settings. 

> Before beginning this step, be sure to have completed the ***"How to setup your own computer"*** link at the top of this page to download the code samples and setup your local Python environment to run the exercises. 

1. From a bash terminal, navigate to the to the `nxos-code/yang/02-yang` directory within the cloned repository.
1. Execute the `config_bgp_baseline.py` script.  This script ensures the default BGP configuration in the Always On Sandbox device matches the needs for this lab. 

    ```python
    (venv) 02-yang\ $ python config_bgp_baseline.py
    
    Now sending baseline bgp configuration to device sbx-nxos-mgmt.cisco.com...
    
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <rpc-reply message-id="urn:uuid:a223475d-9f8d-4e0a-a76e-7cc45ddf9e5a" xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
        <ok/>
    </rpc-reply>
    ```

1. Optionally, open the `bgp-baseline.xml` file to see how the BGP configuration is deployed with the NX-OS YANG Model. 

#### Next: Exploring the use of OpenConfig YANG Models on Nexus
