# NETCONF/YANG on Nexus: Part 1 - Learning to use the Cisco NXOS YANG Model

Did you know that a Nexus switch can be represented using one or more data structures?  More specifically, a Nexus switch's configuration and operational state can be represented in various data formats such as JSON and XML, but this data must adhere to the data models that the Nexus switch supports.  In this module, we'll walk through the various types of models supported and take a look at how we communicate and automate Nexus switches using data that adheres to those models!  Let's get started.

You should know by now that data modeling provides a means for defining the schema supported by devices, e.g. configuration and operational state syntax and semantics, and the most pervasive modeling language for networking devices is called YANG--we're focused on describing the different YANG models supported by Nexus in this module!

Note that the Nexus switches have support for a native, Cisco NXOS specific YANG model and various OpenConfig YANG models. As you'll see in this module, the Cisco specific model is a single model that accounts for all features, but OpenConfig models are more concise in that they are purpose-built for specific features.

While we're only covering NETCONF and YANG models in module, you should also realize that from a programmability standpoint, this is independent from the NX-API CLI and NX-API Object Model APIs (although the object model API supports Cisco specific YANG model). For additional information refer to learning labs on those topics.

From a hands-on perspective in this lab, you'll view and navigate the Cisco specific Nexus model and in Part 2, you'll continue to use this model building out a Layer 3 switch fabric, and finally in Part 3, you'll use OpenConfig YANG data models on Nexus switches.  Additionally, while utilizing XML data that adheres to those models, you'll configure Nexus switches using the NETCONF programmable interface.

## Objectives

- Learn how to install and setup the proper device packages on Nexus switches to start using NETCONF/YANG.
- Learn how to use the XML representation of the YANG models to configure Nexus switches using NETCONF via the ncclient.
- Understand the difference between the Cisco NXOS YANG model and OpenConfig YANG models, both of which Nexus supports (after Part 1, Part 2, and Part 3).

**For an introduction to NETCONF, YANG, and ncclient please see the learning labs focused on these technologies**

## Prerequisites
To complete this lab you need:

* A development environment with typical tools and applications.  If you are at a DevNet Event using a provided workstation, you are ready to go.  If you are working from your own workstation, please review the ***"How to setup your own computer"*** link at the top of this page.  
* Lab infrastructure to target API calls and code.  These labs and code examples are written to leverage the [DevNet Open NX-OS Always On Sandbox](https://devnetsandbox.cisco.com/RM/Diagram/Index/dae38dd8-e8ee-4d7c-a21c-6036bed7a804?diagramType=Topology).  This lab is available for anyone to use, with only access to the Internet as a requirement. To use a different device, ensure the device is running Open NX-OS 9.2.1 or higher.

You should also have an understanding of these foundational topics:

* Complete the [Introduction to YANG Data Modeling](https://developer.cisco.com/learning/modules/intro-device-level-interfaces) Devnet learning lab
* Complete the [Introduction to the NETCONF Protocol](https://developer.cisco.com/learning/modules/intro-device-level-interfaces) Devnet learning lab
* Ability to read and understand Python code samples and scripts. You can explore the [Programming Fundamentals](https://developer.cisco.com/learning/modules/fundamentals) labs available on DevNet.  
* Ability to leverage Postman to make REST API requests.  This includes the use of Collections and Environments.  Check out the [REST API Fundamentals](https://developer.cisco.com/learning/modules/rest-api-fundamentals) labs available on DevNet.

*Some of the examples used in these labs utilize the BGP routing protocol. Some familiarity with it is helpful.*

#### Next: Walkthrough of enabling Model Driven Programmability with NETCONF/YANG on Open NX-OS
