## Walkthrough of enabling Model Driven Programmability with NETCONF/YANG on Open NX-OS
Before you can work with YANG models through the interfaces of NETCONF, RESTCONF, and gRPC on Open NX-OS, you must enable the features and install the desired OpenConfig models to the network switch.  

The DevNet Always On Sandbox has had these protocols enabled and configured already so you can immediately begin with the step for **Initial Interactions with the Cisco NXOS YANG Model**.

If you are working on your own environment and switches, follow these steps to get your devices setup.  

> Note: These instructions apply to Open NX-OS 9.2.1+.  Previous versions of Open NX-OS required manual installation and activation of RPMs for the protocol agents. See the Programming Guides for your platform if you are working on an earlier version of software.  

### Enabling the Model Driven Programmability Features in NX-OS

1. Enable the following features on the switch using CLI or another method (ie NX-API). *You only need to enable the transport protocols that you wish to leverage.*
    
    ```
    feature bash-shell
    feature netconf
    feature restconf
    feature grpc
    ```
    
    * `bash-shell` will be used to install the OpenConfig RPM Package

1. Open NX-OS includes the [Native NX-OS Data Model](https://github.com/YangModels/yang/blob/master/vendor/cisco/nx/9.2-1/Cisco-NX-OS-device.yang) in the software image itself. If that is the only model you wish to use, you are ready to go.  
1. The OpenConfig Models supported by Open NX-OS can be downloaded from [Cisco DevHub](https://devhub.cisco.com/artifactory/open-nxos-agents/) for free. You'll find Open NX-OS release specific folders containing RPM packages for individual models, as well as a single RPM with all OpenConfig Models. (ie [`mtx-openconfig-all-1.0.0.0-9.2.1.lib32_n9000.rpm`](https://devhub.cisco.com/artifactory/open-nxos-agents/9.2-1/x86_64/mtx-openconfig-all-1.0.0.0-9.2.1.lib32_n9000.rpm)) 
1. Download the desired models to your local workstation, and then copy them to the Open NX-OS switch you wish to install them onto.  

    ```
    ! Example Commands 
    nx-osv9000-1#copy scp://developer@10.10.20.20/home/developer/Downloads/mtx-openconfig-all-1.0.0.0-9.2.1.lib32_n9000.rpm bootflash: vrf management
    ```

1. Use the `bash-shell` on Open NX-OS to install the newly copied over RPM files. *Reminder that `feature bash-shell` must be enabled on your switch.*

    ```
    ! Example Commands
    nx-osv9000-1(config)#run bash sudo su
    bash-4.2#
    bash-4.2# cd /bootflash/
    bash-4.2# yum install mtx-openconfig-all-1.0.0.0-9.2.1.lib32_n9000.rpm
    ```
