## Exploring the Cisco NXOS YANG Model

From the execution of the script in the previous step, we identified the NXOS model namespace as `http://cisco.com/ns/yang/cisco-nx-os-device`.

Let's use `pyang`to visualize this model.

First, remember that all supported models for Nexus are posted to GitHub at [https://github.com/YangModels/yang](https://github.com/YangModels/yang) and specifically within the `cisco/nx` sub-directory.

1. From a bash terminal, navigate to the to the `nxos-code/yang/01-yang` directory within the cloned repository.
1. The `Cisco-NX-OS-device.yang` YANG file has been included in the code samples for this learning lab. 

    ```bash
    (venv) 01-yang\ $ ls Cisco-NX-OS-device.yang
    Cisco-NX-OS-device.yang
    ```

1. Issue the following command to generate a text tree view of the YANG model. 
    > Note: this command can take up to a minute or two to complete.

    ``` shell
    (venv) 01-yang\ $ pyang -f tree Cisco-NX-OS-device.yang -o nxos_native.txt
    # output omitted and shown below
    ```

1. This is going to print the "tree" output of the NXOS device model to a file stored in `nxos_native.txt`. Now view the file `nxos_native.txt`. This output is a visualization of the NXOS YANG model for the NXOS device.  This model is a full representation of every feature supported on Open NX-OS and matches the same date model used by NX-API REST.  
    * The file is quite long and detailed.  You can press `q` to quit from the view.

    ```bash
    less nxos_native.txt
    ```

1. You'll see based on the output that YANG models are hierarchical, and this particular model is rooted in a container called `System`:

    ``` shell
    module: Cisco-NX-OS-device
      +--rw System
         +--ro currentTime?                string
         +--ro systemUpTime?               string
         +--ro serial?                     eqpt_Serial
         +--rw name?                       naming_Name
         +--rw bgp-items
         |  +--rw name?         naming_Name256
         |  +--rw adminSt?      nw_AdminSt
         |  +--ro operSt?       nw_EntOperSt
         |  +--rw inst-items
         |     +--rw asn?                   bgp_AsnNum
         |     +--rw disPolBatch?           bgp_AdminSt
         |     +--rw disPolBatchv4PfxLst?   string
         |     +--rw disPolBatchv6PfxLst?   string
         |     +--ro createTs?              string
    # output omitted for brevity
    ...
    ```

1. Let's now "use" this model and try and collect the serial number of the devices.  By using this model, it simply means we are going to pass an XML object to the device that adheres to this YANG model.
1. As we saw in the devnet learning lab for YANG, we can "interact" with this YANG model by constructing an equivalent `XML` filter and using that with the `ncclient` Python library over the NETCONF protocol.  Based on the tree output above, our `xml` filter would look like this
    
    ``` python
    serial_number = """
        <System xmlns="http://cisco.com/ns/yang/cisco-nx-os-device">
          <serial/>
        </System>
        """
    ```

1. You could also have done the following:

    ``` python
    serial_number = """
        <System xmlns="http://cisco.com/ns/yang/cisco-nx-os-device">
          <serial>
          </serial>
        </System>
        """
    ```

1. This follows the YANG tree, in that we are filtering for a YANG "leaf" node called `serial` that is rooted under the "container" `System`.
    * *Note:The concepts of leafs and containers are explored in the YANG learning devnet lab.*

> YANG models can effectively be thought of as a documentation/definition, or _schema_, of a particular property of the device we are interested in interacting with.

#### Next: Let's continue and actually make a request to the device.
